---
title: Getting started
description: Instructions to start quickly with easymake
---

Easymake is a **declarative build system** based on YAML files called **`Emakefile`**.  
It allows you to define **targets** composed of **steps**, which execute reusable **actions** (such as running a shell command, downloading a file, or creating an archive).  

Unlike traditional build tools, Easymake emphasizes **simplicity**, **extensibility**, and **structured documentation**.  

## Quick start

### Installation

#### Linux

TODO

#### Windows

TODO

### Initialize your project

Go inside your project folder and run the following command:

```bash
emake init
```

This command will create an Emakefile inside the folder with your first hello world target.
To run the target execute the following command:

```bash
emake build hello_world
```

✅ You should see `Hello World !` printed.  
Emake will also create a `.emake` folder in your project (learn more about it [here](./docs/emake_folder.md)).

### Emakefile

An Emakefile contains three parts: variables, secrets and targets.

Only the targets part is generated by the init command because this part is mandatory.

Each part have a specific purpose:
  - variables: Use this part to declare a new variable. You can refer to the section [Guides/Use variables](../../guides/variables/) to learn how to manage variables.
  - secrets: Use this part to declare a secret. You can refer to the section [Guides/Use secrets](../../guides/secrets/) to learn how to manage secrets.
  - targets: Use to define targets that you can call with the `emake build` command. Refer to the section [Guides/Create targets](../../guides/targets/) to learn how to create targets.

You can place an `Emakefile` in any folder within your project. This is useful for splitting a build workflow into smaller, reusable pieces.
Targets, secrets, and variables can be referenced using the path syntax; see the dedicated [paths syntax](../../guides/paths/) guide for details.
